As the Kafka development team began to tackle the problem of
schema evolution between producers and consumers in the ecosystem,
they knew they needed to identify a schema technology to work with.
Apache Avro was identified early in the development of Kafka,
and its prevalence and the tooling has grown ever since.
Although Avro is not required to use Kafka,
and you can in fact use any other schema format that you like,
Avro is used extensively in the Kafka ecosystem,
and using it will drastically improve your experience.
When using Avro with Apache Kafka,
the producer must define an Avro schema for messages they would like to produce to Kafka.
Many client libraries including the one we're going to use for this course,
have built-in support for Avro.
That means that all you have to do is define your schema,
and pass it along to special Avro produced functions.
In this case, the library will simply handle encoding the data for you.
When you use the confluent Kafka Python libraries, special Avro consumer,
it will automatically unpack the Avro data it receives from Kafka,
using the Avro schema that was packaged alongside it.
This functionality is extremely convenient,
and a perfect example of why it is beneficial to use Avro when you work with Kafka.
The ecosystem and its libraries supply you
a significant benefits with very little effort.
While it does take a little more effort to define your schema in
Avro versus JSON or plaintext,
you'll be grateful to have spent that effort when
your application tolerates downstream data changes more gracefully.